<!-- source: https://seirdy.one/posts/2020/11/23/website-best-practices/ -->

If you find the article too long, just read the introduction and conclusion. The table of contents should help you skim.
Toggle table of contents
## Table of Contents
* Scripts and the Content Security Policy
* Third-party content
* Inline content
I realize not everybody’s going to ditch the Web and switch to Gemini or Gopher today (that’ll take, like, at least a month /s). Until that happens, here’s a non-exhaustive, highly-opinionated list of best practices for websites that focus primarily on text. I don’t expect anybody to fully agree with the list; nonetheless, the article should have at least some useful information for any web content author or front-end web developer.
I’ll cite theWAI’sTechniques for WCAG 2.2a number of times. Each “Success Criterion” (requirement) of the WCAG has possible techniques. Unlike theWeb Content Accessibility Guidelines(WCAG), the Techniques document does not list requirements; rather, it serves to non-exhaustively educate authors about _how_ to use specific technologies to comply with the WCAG. I don’t find much utility in the technology-agnostic goals enumerated by the WCAG without the accompanying technology-specific techniques to meet those goals.
I’ll also citeMaking Content Usable for People with Cognitive and Learning Disabilities, bythe WAI. The document lists eight objectives. Each objective has associated personas, and can be met by several design patterns.
Performance and accessibility guidelines are scattered across multiple WAI documents and blog posts. Moreover, guidelines tend to be overly general and avoid giving specific advice. Guidelines from different places tend to contradict each other, especially when they have different goals (e.g., security and accessibility). They also tend to be focused on large corporate sites rather than the simple text-oriented content the Web was made for.
Hostile networks are the norm, andyour site is an attack vector. All of the simplicity in the world won’t protect a page from unsafe content injection by an intermediary. Proper use of TLS protects against page alteration in transit and ensures a limited degree of privacy. Test your TLS setup withtestssl.shandWebbkoll.
At the time of inserting the`meta`element to the document, it is possible that some resources have already been fetched. For example, images might be stored in thelist of available imagesprior to dynamically inserting a`meta`element with an`http-equiv`attribute in the Content security policy state. Resources that have already been fetched are not guaranteed to be blocked by a Content Security Policy that’s enforced late.
Third-party content will complicate the CSP, allow more actors to track users, possibly slow page loading, and create more points of failure. Some privacy-conscious users actually block third-party content: while doing so is fingerprintable, it canreduce the amount of data collected about an already-identified user. Avoid third-party content, if at all possible.
Some web developers deliver resources using a third-party content delivery network (CDN), such as jsDelivr or Unpkg. Traditional wisdom held that doing so would allow different websites to re-use cached resources; however,mainstream browsers partition their cachesto prevent this behavior.
For embedded third-party content (e.g. images), give extra consideration to the“Beyond alt-text” section. Your page should be as useful as possible if the embedded content becomes inaccessible.
Optimal loading is a complex topic. Broadly, it covers three overlapping categories: reducing payload size, delivering content early, and reducing the number of requests and round trips.
Out of privacy concerns, most browsers no longer re-use cached content across sites; refer back to thesection on third-party contentfor more details. Privacy-conscious users (including all users using “private” or “incognito” sessions) will likely have their caches wiped between sessions.
I personally found this to be too much work. I skipped the creation of “lite” pages by removing non-semantic markup from my HTML: with the exception of utility classes that describe content rather than structure, my markup is made of semantically-relevant POSH, ARIA, Microdata, and microformats classes.note 5
Download size matters, especially on metered connections. There’s no shortage of advice concerning minimizing this easy-to-understand metric. Unfortunately, it alone doesn’t give us the full picture: download size is not the exact same thing as time taken to deliver useful content to users.
* Finish downloading two screenfuls of content
Loading content of unknown dimensions, such as images, can create layout shifts; theWICG’sLayout Instability APIdescribes the phenomenon in detail. Avoid layout shifts by including dimensions in HTML attributes. The simplest way to do so is by including unitless`width`and`height`values, but the`style`attribute could work too. I recommend staying away from the`style`attribute, or at least selectively allowing its use with the`style-src-attr`CSP directive.
The scope of this article is textual content supplemented by images. In that context, I don’t think lazy loading is worthwhile because it often frustrates users on slow connections. I think I can speak for some of these users: mobile data near my home has a number of “dead zones” with abysmal download speeds, and my home’s Wi-Fi repeater setup used to result in packet loss rates surpassing 60% (!!).
Unfortunately, pages with lazy loading don’t finish loading off-screen images in the background. To load this content ahead of time, users need to switch to the loading page and slowly scroll to the end to ensure that all the important content appears on-screen and starts loading. Website owners shouldn’t expect users to have to jump through these ridiculous hoops.
A common objection to my case against lazy-loading is that users may be more likely to click a link than scroll to the end, so pages should prioritize pre-loading the link. Pre-loading a page’s essential resources is fine. Speculatively pre-loading content on separate pages isn’t.
One example is pagination. It’s easier to download one long article ahead of time, but inconvenient to load each page separately. Displaying content all at once also improves searchability. The single-page approach has obvious limits: don’t expect users to happily download a single-page novel.
A hybrid between the two is paginated content in which users click a “load next page” link to insert the next page at the end of the current page (typically using “dynamic content replacement”). It’s essentially the same as infinite scrolling, except additional content is loaded after a click rather than by scrolling. This is only slightly less bad than infinite scrolling; it still has the same fundamental issue of allowing readers to lose their place.
CSS containmentallows authors to isolate sub-trees of the DOM. This lets browsers make more informed optimizations: they can delay painting off-screen content or reduce re-calculations when isolated nodes change. Combined with a property like`content-visibility`, it enables browsers to defer all rendering of less essential below-the-fold content.
displays an element’s contents as they becomerelevant to the user. It also doesn’t hide itsskipped contentsfrom the user agent, so screen readers, in-page search, and other tools can still interact with it.
Using`content-visibility`for content at the end of the page is relatively safe. Using it for content earlier in the page risks introducing minorlayout shiftsand scrollbar-jumping. Eliminate the layout shifts by calculating a value for the`contain-intrinsic-size`property.Calculating ‘contain-intrinsic-size’ for ‘content-visibility’, byThijsTerluinfromTeluin Webdesign, is a comprehensive guide to calculating intrinsic size values. The scrollbar is less likely to jump around noticeably on extra-long pages, so sufficient page-length could let you get away with setting`contain-intrinsic-size`to a rough estimate.
Web pages that hide content behind “show content” widgets are difficult to search through: users need to toggle “show content” for each item they wish to search. Often, in-page search highlights are hidden;Reddit’s atrocious redesignis a serious offender. If you need to hide some content for performance reasons, I described a less hostile way to do so inthe “Long-page performance” section.
Concisely summarize the image content the best you can, without repeating the surrounding content.
Alt text should be limited to describing content of the image. It lacks context. To make things worse, images can contain a great deal of information. Sighted people can “filter” this information and find areas to focus on; alt text should capture this detail. However, sighted users’ understanding of this detail can be informed by surrounding less-essential detail.
Figures aren’t just for images; they’re for any self-contained referenced content that’s closer to the surrounding body than an``. Some example items that could use a caption:
When a`figure`is referred to from the main content of the document by identifying it by its caption (e.g., by figure number), it enables such content to be easily moved away from that primary content, e.g., to the side of the page, to dedicated pages, or to an appendix, without affecting the flow of the document.
Some images contain text. I describe best practices for preparing pictures of text inthe “Pictures of text” section. Only use pictures of text if the visual appearance of the text is an essential part of what you wish communicate. If the content of the text is also important, include a transcript.
If the image is a screenshot of text from a website, link to that website to allow users to read its contents in context; this can serve as an “image transcript” of sorts.
Even if you set custom colors, ensure that the page is compatible with color overrides: elements shouldn’t be distinguished solely by foreground and background color.Technique C25for theWeb Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2describes how doing so can meet the WCAG 2.2’sSuccess Criterion 1.4.8. Specifically, it describes using default colors in combination with visible borders. The latter helps distinguish elements from surrounding content without relying on a custom color palette.
In general, avoid loading images just for decoration. Only use an image if it has a clear purpose that significantly adds to the content in a way that text can’t replace, and provide alt-text as a fallback. Any level of detail that isn’t necessary for getting the point across should be removed by lossy compression and cropping.
Screen readers make it difficult to consume poorly-organized content non-linearly.
Clients that don’t support CSS can’t prioritize content using a supplied stylesheet.
The first or second heading in the DOM, and the highest heading level, should be the page title marking the start of your main content (i.e. it should come after the site title, site navigation links, etc). Use elements like``,``, and``to provide landmarks. If multiple navigation elements exist, give your main navigation element an`aria-label`or a heading.
Think twice before placing important content immediately after skippable content such as nested landmarks, long code snippets, figures, and large lists. AT users who wish to skip content may jump directly to the next heading, glossing over anything between the skippable content and subsequent heading; this is especially common on mobile devices.note 34When it makes sense to do so, place skippable content in its own sections and/or at the end of its parent section.
Keeping a single-column layout that doesn’t require responsive layout changes ensures smooth window re-sizing. Doing so while keeping an identical source, DOM, and visual order ensures layout consistency: spatial references such as “the paragraph above this heading” or “the bottom image of a section” will be unambiguous to screen reader, phone, and desktop users. It also ensures that selection behavior and caret movements duringcaret navigationremain predictable. Achieving this type of layout entails using the WCAG 2.2 techniquesC27: Making the DOM order match the visual orderas well asC6: Positioning content based on structural markup.
The site doesn’t use responsive design. The navbar and main content are now squeezed together. Readers will probably close the page.
Low Vision User Accessibility Requirementsby theWAIis a work-in-progress document that describes issues caused by significant responsive changes. It encourages designers to “maintain point of regard” during responsive changes (the “point of regard” is the place a reader is looking at). Unfortunately, it’s not always possible to “guess” whether the point of regard is the main content or a sidebar.
Designers often use figures to “break up” their content, and provide negative space. This is good advice, but I don’t think people pay enough attention to the flipside: splitting up content with too many figures can make reading extremely painful on a short viewport. Design maxims usually lack nuance.
Keeping the most important content above the fold (the part of the page that’s visible without scrolling) is hard on small screens. Nonetheless, it’s an important element of cognitive accessibility. Users may struggle to identify a page or navigate a site if the title and navigation links are below the fold.TheWAI’smobile accessibility guidelinesshare this recommendation.
* Placing the tasks/features toward the top of the content so assistive technology finds them quickly.
The previous“small viewports” sectionmay tempt you to make your content as dense as possible. Please don’t overdo it.
Some list items have links with extra padding. These include description terms (`

`) and navigation elements, such as the table of contents or the site header and footer,
I don’t recommend catering to each tool’s non-standard quirks. Studying their design reveals that they observe open standards, to varying degrees.Readability, DOM Distiller, and Trafilatura understand plain-old, semantic HTML (POSH).
Designers already test their websites with multiple browser engines to ensure cross-browser compatibility. Screen readers deserve the same treatment. Orca, VoiceOver, NVDA, Narrator, JAWS, TalkBack, ChromeVox, KaiOS Readout, et al. all have unique behavior. In addition, different browsers—even different Chromium forks—expose content to screen readers differently. You’ll need to test multiple screen readers in multiple browsers, and keep track of updates to both. See why standards compliance is i...
Beware of`display`and`visibility`CSS properties; they can interfere with content reported to screen readers (seequote from Steve Faulkner). Whenever you use one of those properties, re-test with screen readers just to be safe.
I’ve already made a privacy and performance case against third-party resources in an earlier“Third-party content” subsection. Another reason to avoid third-party resources is longevity. Third-party scripts, styles, frames, and images all depend on someone else’s host keeping the resource available at the same URL; over time, these tend to disappear. Sticking to first-party content reduces these points of failure.
Third-party content is especially problematic when it’s hosted on modest hardware. If your site “goes viral”, your traffic could take down the third-party site or prompt them to disable hotlinking._Serve assets yourself._
On the same note: your internal and externallinks to other pages need to change with time. Use a broken-link checker regularly to ensure that your content stays alive. I recommend checkers likelycheeandhtmltestbecause they can cache results. My site has a bit under two thousand links at the time of writing; checking all of them at once would be exhausting, but using a week-long cache allows me to split this over seven days.
How exposing new content on hover is inaccessible to users with magnifiers, hand tremors, switch access, and touchscreens.
* Content extractors or “Reader Mode”
Raw content true to its construction:
Content is readable on all reasonable screens and devices.
View content by scrolling.
The250kb clubgathers websites at or under 250kb, and also rewards websites that have a high ratio of content size to total size.
If you’ve got some time on your hands, I _highly_ recommend reading theWeb Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.2. The WCAG 2 standard is technology-neutral, so it doesn’t contain Web-specific advice. For that, check theHow to Meet WCAG (Quick Reference). It combines the WCAG with its supplementarylist of techniques.
The WCAG are an excellent starting point for learning about accessibility, but make for a poor stopping point. Much of the content on this page simply isn’t covered by the WCAG. One of my favorite resources for learning about what the WCAG _doesn’t_ cover isAxess Lab’s articles.
Many addons function by injecting content into pages; this significantly weakens many aspects of the browser security model (e.g. site and origin isolation) and should be avoided if at all possible. For content such as public key fingerprints, I recommend setting a blank`sandbox`directive even if it means breaking these addons.
Moreover, the`sandbox`directive exposes some bugs in WebKit (i.e. Safari and most GTK-based browsers). On content governed by a`sandbox`directive without the`allow-same origin`and`allow-scripts`directives, some WebKit browser features won’t work. One example is media controls. One page on my site has an`audio`element; I added`allow-scripts`to that page so it will work in WebKit-based browsers.WebKit bug 237281 documents the general issue;WebKit bug 225865andWebKit bug 218086document specific instances.
This one-kilobyte limit is a semi-arbitrary rule-of-thumb I came up with. It’s a simple number easier to work with than the number of bytes remaining in the earliest contentful round-trip, yet it typically falls within that quota.
uBlock Origin is a popular browser extension for content filtering; it’s the most popular Firefox add-on. It includes a built-in feature to block all media elements exceeding a user-configurable size threshold.
only renders invisible text without JavaScript. You can use a textual browser, screen reader, copy-paste the page contents elsewhere, use a reader-mode implementation, or “view source” to read it without enabling scripts. All of these options will ironically override the carefully-crafted typography of this website about typography.
ATs typically let users navigate by headings, landmarks, paragraphs, and links. Most users prefer skipping article content with heading-based navigation. Keyboard users can bind different keys to different modes of navigation, but mobile users can only access one navigation mode at a time.
"Over the past couple of weeks or so, I've made quite a few changes to the site, mostly focused on frontend/layout/UI changes. The changes are more or less done, so here's a changelog entry. The main driver of the changes was this post about best practices for text websites. Not all of it applies to the site, since I do have a bunch of image content around as well, but enough that I was spurred to apply many of the points and also include some additional changes I've been meaning to do. Second…"
"Useful tools for blogs and websites. Part 6. Accessibility is very important to me, and I like to make sure that each web page I build is optimised for readability and supports screen readers. Fun fact: this blog is currently using the write.as standard style sheet and is not as accessible as my website on tilde.club. There is a lot to read and research about accessibility, inclusive websites, and accommodation and I definitely suggest the following websites as a starting point on accessi…"
"[…] here’s a non-exhaustive, highly-opinionated list of best practices for websites that focus primarily on text. I don’t expect anybody to fully agree with the list; nonetheless, the article should have at least some useful information for any web content author or front-end web developer.~ Rohan Kumar from, https://seirdy.one/2020/11/23/website-best-practices.html Zoinks! Just reading the few paragraphs in Kumar’s Introduction suddenly renewed my pride at being among the few huma…"
"@chemelia hmm…I wrote a big fat thing; you can skip around with the table of contents: https://seirdy.one/posts/2020/11/23/website-best-practices/It’s not prescriptive advice; it’s intended to establish a baseline that you can then diverge from and account for tradeoffs.The APCA Readability Criterion lists a ton of considerations. I’m not fully convinced on all of them but it’s a great reference when picking a color scheme and typography. Best practices for inclusive textual websites"
"This post discusses practices promoted by checks in ready, a tool that I've made to help developers check for security best practices in their websites. If you're working on a team that's building something served over HTTP you should check it out! Table of Contents This table of contents also serves a quick guide / checklist. Redirect HTTP traffic to HTTPS Cookies should be set securely HSTS headers must be returned You should support IPv6 Return a decent Content-Security-Policy Permissi…"
