<!-- source: https://doi.org/10.1145/1526709.1526911 -->

**Maximum Storage Duration** : Session**Type** : HTTP Cookie
* Estimating web site readability using content extraction
Web content accessibility guidelines
Nowadays, information is primarily searched on the WWW. From a user perspective, the readability is an important criterion for measuring the accessibility and thereby the quality of an information. We show that modern content extraction algorithms help to estimate the readability of a web document quite accurate.
You can view the full content in the following formats:
R. Flesch. A new readability yardstick. Journal of Applied Psychology, 32(3):221--233, 1948.
T. Gottron. Content code blurring: A new approach to content extraction. Database and Expert Systems Applications, International Workshop on, pages 29--33, 2008.
G. H. McLaughlin. Smog grading: A new readability formula. Journal of Reading, 12 (8):639--646, 1969.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-21438-7_35
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1007/978-3-030-49282-3_18
### Bilingual web page and site readability assessment
Readability assessment is a method to measure the difficulty of a piece of text material, and it is widely used in educational field to assist instructors to prepare appropriate materials for students. In this paper, we investigate the applications of ...
### Improving Readability of Text in Realistic Virtual Reality Scenarios: Visual Magnification Without Restricting User Interactions
The resolution of current head-mounted displays leads to poor readability of text inrealistic virtual reality (VR) simulations. This results in unnatural user behavior. Here, three approaches for improving the readability of text in VR have been ...
* content extraction
* readability
View Table of Contents
__Content Error
__AI Generated Content
