<!-- source: https://seirdy.one/2021/03/10/search-engines-with-own-indexes.html -->

Toggle table of contents
## Table of Contents
    Although it’s a Chinese engine, its index seems to have a large-enough proportion of English content to fit here. The engine is open-source; see the[SeSe back-end Python code](https://github.com/RimoChan/sese-engine)and[the SeSe-ui Vue-based front-end](https://github.com/YunYouJun/sese-engine-ui). It has surprisingly good results for such a low-budget project. Each result is annotated with detailed ranking metadata such as keyword relevance and backlink weight. Discovered in my access logs.
    A project by the creator of Kagi search. Uses its own crawler that measures content blocked by uBlock Origin, and extracts content with the open-source article scrapers Trafilatura and Readability.js. This is quite an interesting approach: tracking blocked elements discourages tracking and advertising; using Trafilatura and Readability.js encourages the use of semantic HTML and Semantic Web standards such as[microformats](https://microformats.org/),[microdata](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/microdata.html), and[RDFa](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdfa-primer/). It claims to also use some results from Marginalia.[The Web interface has been shut down](https://kagifeedback.org/d/1838-teclis-is-broken/2), but its standalone API is still available for Kagi customers.
    a FOSS new engine with a small index of several thousand pages. It focuses on independent content and downranks ads and trackers; there seems to be a real focus on quality over quantity, which makes it excellent for short-tail searches (especially around technical concepts). Ranking is more egalitarian than other engines, making it better for discovery and surfing than research. It’s designed to be small and lightweight, with a compact index. Discovered in the seirdy.one access logs.
    A combined website catalog and search engine that focuses on categorization. Its[about page](https://search.thunderstone.com/texis/websearch19/about.html)claims:"We continuously survey all primary COM, NET, and ORG web-servers and distill their contents to produce this database. This is an index of _sites_ not pages. It is very good at finding companies and organizations by purpose, product, subject matter, or location. If you’re trying to finding things like _‘BillyBob’s personal beer can page on AOL’_ , try Yahoo or Dogpile."This seems to be the polar opposite of the engines in the[“small or non-commercial Web” category](https://seirdy.one/posts/2021/03/10/search-engines-with-own-indexes/#small-or-non-commercial-web).
    Only shows domains, not individual pages. Developed by netEstate GmbH, which specializes in content extraction for inprints and job ads. Also has a German-only version available. Discovered in my access logs.
Toutiao: Chinese. Not sure how independent this one is either. Its index appears limited outside of its own content distribution platform.
    A UK-based search engine that claims not to “index pornography or illegal content websites”. It also features an optional social network (“blog”). Discovered in the seirdy.one access logs.
Google, Microsoft (the company behind Bing), and Yandex aren’t just search engine companies; they’re content and ad companies as well. For example, Google hosts video content on YouTube and Microsoft hosts social media content on LinkedIn. This gives these companies a powerful incentive to prioritize their own content. They are able to do so even if they claim that they treat their own content the same as any other: since they have complete access to their search engines’ inner workings, they can tailor their content pages to better fit their algorithms and tailor their algorithms to work well on their own content. They can also index their own content without limitations but throttle indexing for other crawlers.[note 14](https://seirdy.one/posts/2021/03/10/search-engines-with-own-indexes/#fn:14)
One way to avoid this conflict of interest is to _use search engines that aren’t linked to major content providers;_ i.e., use engines with their own independent indexes.
* Compiling a list of regular expressions for user-agent strings I’m familiar with. Before I delete my server access logs, I extract user-agents that don’t match that list along with the pages they request.
I’m not usually willing to budge on my “no hand-picked websites” rule. Hand-picked sites will be ignored, whether your engine fetches content through their APIs or crawls and scrapes their content. It’s fine to use hand-picked websites as starting points for your crawler (Wikipedia is a popular option).
Some of this content came from the[Search Engine Map](https://www.searchenginemap.com/)and[Search Engine Party](https://searchengine.party/). A few web directories also proved useful.
This comment may have major formatting errors that could impact screen reader comprehension.
"@CobaltVelvet @haskal Ok, sampled from my blog post on the topic:Lixia Labs: brand new one that focuses on technical content and blogs.Wiby: mostly user-submitted Web-1.0 pages reminiscent of the “Old Web”.Marginalia Search: My favorite search engine. Penalizes pages with heavy JS, excessive harmful SEO practices, tracking, etc. and uses a weighted PageRank algorithm to prioritize better, simpler pages. Offers an optional ranking algorithm that prioritizes blogs.Kagi offers a “noncommer…"
"Google is the lord and emperor of search (regardless of what Microsoft Bing has going on with OpenAI). But its focus on commercially-slanted results means people looking for personal blogs or generally “rough around the edges” content will struggle to find it. That’s where alternative search engines come in, built on top of their own indexes. Rohan Kumar took a deep dive into a list of search engines with his own indexes including the main ones: Google, Bing, Yandex, as well as lesse…"
  *[GBY]: Google, Bing, Yandex
  *[SEO]: search-engine optimization
  *[TLD]: top-level domain
  *[FLOSS]: Free, Libre, Open-Source Software
